.\" Manpage for Ping Management Script.
.TH monitor.sh 8 "24 January 2025" "1.0" "Ping Management Script"
.SH NAME
monitor.sh \- manage hosts by adding, removing, displaying, and pinging them, with cron job support.
.SH SYNOPSIS
monitor.sh [COMMAND] [ARGUMENTS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmonitor.sh\fP script provides functionality to manage a list of hosts and perform various operations such as adding, removing, displaying, and pinging them. It also includes options to configure and manage periodic pinging using cron jobs.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBaddhost\fP \fI<HOST>\fP
Add a new host to the list of hosts.
.TP
\fBdelhost\fP \fI<HOST>\fP
Remove an existing host from the list of hosts.
.TP
\fBshowhosts\fP
Display all the hosts in the list.
.TP
\fBpinghosts\fP
Ping all hosts in the list and log the results.
.TP
\fBinstall\fP \fI<INTERVAL>\fP
Install a cron job to periodically ping hosts at the specified interval (in minutes).
.TP
\fBuninstall\fP
Remove the installed cron job for this script.
.TP
\fBhelp\fP
Show the help section.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The script uses a configuration file named \fBconfig.cfg\fP, located at ~/.monitor/config.cfg. It defines the following default values if the file does not already exist:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
PING_PACKETS=3
PING_TIMEOUT=5
PING_INTERVAL=1
.PD
.RE
.PP
You can modify the \fBconfig.cfg\fP file to suit your needs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Add a host to the list:
\fB./monitor.sh addhost 192.168.1.1\fP
.TP
Remove a host from the list:
\fB./monitor.sh delhost 192.168.1.1\fP
.TP
Display all hosts:
\fB./monitor.sh showhosts\fP
.TP
Ping all hosts and log results:
\fB./monitor.sh pinghosts\fP
.TP
Install a cron job to ping hosts every 5 minutes:
\fB./monitor.sh install 5\fP
.TP
Remove the installed cron job:
\fB./monitor.sh uninstall\fP
.TP
Show the help section:
\fB./monitor.sh help\fP

.SH ERROR CODES
.TP
\fB0\fP
Success.
.TP
\fB1\fP
Missing value or invalid argument.
.TP
\fB2\fP
File is empty (e.g., no hosts in \fBhosts.txt\fP).
.TP
\fB3\fP
Host already exists in the \fBhosts.txt\fP file.
.TP
\fB4\fP
Configuration file (\fBconfig.cfg\fP) not found or invalid.

.SH AUTHOR
Ping Management Script was created by Lukas Marcel Luy (phoenixthrush).
.SH SEE ALSO
cron(8), ping(8)
